shop.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Shop
description: The shop page where I sell an Arduinoboy intended for use with the Nintendo Gameboy and MIDI
---
# Arduinoboy Shield

<div class="gallery">
	<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}public/gallery/1.jpg" alt="Arduinoboy front" id="gallery_image" onclick="cycle(1); return false;">
	<p id="gallery_subtitle">Arduinoboy front</p>
	<p id="gallery_pos_text">1/12</p>
	<div id="gallery_nav">
		<p id="gallery_nav_left" onclick="cycle(0); return false;">←</p>
		<p id="gallery_nav_right" onclick="cycle(1); return false;">→</p>
	</div>
</div>

<table>
<form action="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr" method="post" target="_top">
<input type="hidden" name="cmd" value="_s-xclick">
<input type="hidden" name="hosted_button_id" value="KL5CHQHBNR868">
<table>
<tr><td><input type="hidden" name="on0" value="Options">Options</td></tr><tr><td><select name="os0">
	<option value="Kit Only">Kit Only $16.00 USD</option>
	<option value="Kit + Arduino">Kit + Arduino $21.00 USD</option>
	<option value="Assembled Kit">Assembled Kit $26.00 USD</option>
	<option value="Assembled Kit + Arduino">Assembled Kit + Arduino $31.00 USD</option>
</select> </td></tr>
<tr><td><input type="hidden" name="on1" value="Connectors">Connectors</td></tr><tr><td><select name="os1">
	<option value="MIDI/GBC link ports">MIDI/GBC link ports </option>
	<option value="Screw Terminals">Screw Terminals </option>
</select> </td></tr>
</table>
<input type="hidden" name="currency_code" value="USD">
<input type="image" src="http://i.imgur.com/e67N9Be.png" border="0" name="submit" alt="PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online!">
<img alt="" border="0" src="https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/scr/pixel.gif" width="1" height="1">
</form>
</table>

### [Assembly Instructions (pdf)]({{ site.baseurl }}public/arduinoboy-assembly.pdf)

## Details:

**International buyers: [contact me](mailto:bro@catskull.net) before purchasing.**

Unassembled kits ship within **5** business days.

Assembled kits ship within **10** business days.

Shipping is flat rate $5 CON US.

It is important to understand that you're buying a kit. That means it's a PCB with unsoldered components. For assembly,  you'll need a soldering iron and decent soldering skills. All the components are through-hole, so it should be easy enough for beginners. That said, I take no responsibility for any damage you cause to your kit during assembly. **There is strictly no warranty whatsoever included with the kit. No returns or refunds will be accepted.**

For assembled Arduinoboys, I will test it to ensure functionality before I ship it. That being said, I don't have every midi device under the sun, so I can't guarantee it will work with your equipment. Returns are accepted, but you have to cover return shipping and the initial shipping cost will not be refunded. Refunds will be issued upon arrival and inspection. I also can't provide any kind of warranty.

I will ship to the address entered on the PayPal checkout page, so please double check to make sure it's correct.

The Arduinos I sell are clones of the Arduino Uno. I have tested them and can verify they work. That being said, they're cheap Chinese knockoffs and you get what you pay for. I'm selling them here as a convenience to you, but I'd really recommend you buy an official Arduino. That way, some of the money will go back to the Arduino guys. You will need a different driver than the official Arduino Uno uses. [You can download the needed files here.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BzxqUIMB8O1na1ZLZzFXZGxCbm8/view) I will pre flash your arduino with the arduinoboy code as a convenience to you, but it's important to know that you're not paying for the Arduinoboy software. The arduino comes with a ~1.5ft USB cable.

You'll need a good link cable to use this. I have tested these and they seem to be great: [http://www.ebay.com/itm/400690419424](http://www.ebay.com/itm/400690419424)

By purchasing from me, you are agreeing to these terms and conditions.

Commit message:

Add not about issues with some arduino

shop.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Shop
description: The shop page where I sell an Arduinoboy intended for use with the Nintendo Gameboy and MIDI
---
# Arduinoboy Shield

<div class="gallery">
	<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}public/gallery/1.jpg" alt="Arduinoboy front" id="gallery_image" onclick="cycle(1); return false;">
	<p id="gallery_subtitle">Arduinoboy front</p>
	<p id="gallery_pos_text">1/12</p>
	<div id="gallery_nav">
		<p id="gallery_nav_left" onclick="cycle(0); return false;">←</p>
		<p id="gallery_nav_right" onclick="cycle(1); return false;">→</p>
	</div>
</div>

<table>
<form action="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr" method="post" target="_top">
<input type="hidden" name="cmd" value="_s-xclick">
<input type="hidden" name="hosted_button_id" value="KL5CHQHBNR868">
<table>
<tr><td><input type="hidden" name="on0" value="Options">Options</td></tr><tr><td><select name="os0">
	<option value="Kit Only">Kit Only $16.00 USD</option>
	<option value="Kit + Arduino">Kit + Arduino $21.00 USD</option>
	<option value="Assembled Kit">Assembled Kit $26.00 USD</option>
	<option value="Assembled Kit + Arduino">Assembled Kit + Arduino $31.00 USD</option>
</select> </td></tr>
<tr><td><input type="hidden" name="on1" value="Connectors">Connectors</td></tr><tr><td><select name="os1">
	<option value="MIDI/GBC link ports">MIDI/GBC link ports </option>
	<option value="Screw Terminals">Screw Terminals </option>
</select> </td></tr>
</table>
<input type="hidden" name="currency_code" value="USD">
<input type="image" src="http://i.imgur.com/e67N9Be.png" border="0" name="submit" alt="PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online!">
<img alt="" border="0" src="https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/scr/pixel.gif" width="1" height="1">
</form>
</table>

### [Assembly Instructions (pdf)]({{ site.baseurl }}public/arduinoboy-assembly.pdf)

## Details:

**International buyers: [contact me](mailto:bro@catskull.net) before purchasing.**

Unassembled kits ship within **5** business days.

Assembled kits ship within **10** business days.

Shipping is flat rate $5 CON US.

It is important to understand that you're buying a kit. That means it's a PCB with unsoldered components. For assembly,  you'll need a soldering iron and decent soldering skills. All the components are through-hole, so it should be easy enough for beginners. That said, I take no responsibility for any damage you cause to your kit during assembly. **There is strictly no warranty whatsoever included with the kit. No returns or refunds will be accepted.**

For assembled Arduinoboys, I will test it to ensure functionality before I ship it. That being said, I don't have every midi device under the sun, so I can't guarantee it will work with your equipment. Returns are accepted, but you have to cover return shipping and the initial shipping cost will not be refunded. Refunds will be issued upon arrival and inspection. I also can't provide any kind of warranty.

I will ship to the address entered on the PayPal checkout page, so please double check to make sure it's correct.

There are known issues with Arduino Duemilanove 168 and Arduino Mega 2560. Please use an Arduino UNO with this kit.

The Arduinos I sell are clones of the Arduino Uno. I have tested them and can verify they work. That being said, they're cheap Chinese knockoffs and you get what you pay for. I'm selling them here as a convenience to you, but I'd really recommend you buy an official Arduino. That way, some of the money will go back to the Arduino guys. You will need a different driver than the official Arduino Uno uses. [You can download the needed files here.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BzxqUIMB8O1na1ZLZzFXZGxCbm8/view) I will pre flash your arduino with the arduinoboy code as a convenience to you, but it's important to know that you're not paying for the Arduinoboy software. The arduino comes with a ~1.5ft USB cable.

You'll need a good link cable to use this. I have tested these and they seem to be great: [http://www.ebay.com/itm/400690419424](http://www.ebay.com/itm/400690419424)

By purchasing from me, you are agreeing to these terms and conditions.
