---
title: Six Months a Substitute
tags: [lore, meta, teaching]
date: 2026-02-13 17:50:51 -0700
layout: post
---
Today was my last day in the classroom. For now.

Six months ago, [I resigned from my software engineering position](/resigning.html). I was burnt out, apathetic, and having a mild life crisis due to my covid baby starting Kindergarten. He was born about a week before I had accepted the position I still held (despite living through two acquisitions). After a lot of pain and soul searching, I made the decision that it was time for me to do something else. Go read that post if you want more of my state of mind at that time.

Since then, I've been more or less substitute teaching public school full time. It has been a great experience. [I wrote a few initial thoughts about it in October](/a-few-thoughts-about-teaching-school.html).

Substituting has some benefits and drawbacks compared to full-time teaching. In my school district, they outsource the subs to a third party staffing company. If you do a Google search for the company name, the top result is a Reddit thread titled "DO NOT WORK FOR [COMPANY NAME]". Honestly, reading through it I don't really share the same grievances since my school district is pretty good compared to the national average. Imagine any other industry where they make use of last minute on-call day labor. The jobs are not going to be roses and daisies. You're literally filling in last minute for someone with a lot more experience and skin in the game than you have. For me, I enjoy that every day was a different experience. There is a _huge_ variation depending on the specific school, the grade (age group) of the class, and the teacher. Here's the thing I kind of picked up on - the best teachers don't get very many substitutes because they are professional, care deeply about their job, and actually show up except in extreme cases. Other "less good" teachers, well, it seems like they're a lot more inclined to take a sick day.

One of my least favorite days was in a class and all the kids groaned as they came into class. "Ughhh. _Another_ sub?" I asked the kids what's up, they have a lot of subs? "Yeah, teacher's gone just about every week!"

Teachers are required to leave a "lesson plan" for the sub. Good teachers have their absences planned out to the nth degree. Every tiny detail is there, the students know what to expect and what's expected of them. You're only there to make sure nobody dies and to help out. I think my actual worst day was supposed to be a 3-day assignment. I showed up and the lesson plan was literally a 30 page math packet that the kids were supposed to do quietly and independently. That's it, that's the plan. I really should have stuck it out, but halfway through the first day I just let the staffing company and the school I wasn't going to be able to make it back for the rest of the assignment.

As a sub, I have essentially no authority whatsoever. I have no ability to see or leave grades at all. My only consistent point of contact with the school was the attendance secretary who I'd check in with when I showed up for the assignment and when I left at the end of the day. Occasionally a teacher next door would stop in and let me know I could check with them if I needed anything or had any questions, but usually teachers mostly stuck their nose up at the scum temp sub. I'm sure they had enough on their plates, and why would they stick their neck out just because Johnson decided _now_ was the time for a week long trip to Europe despite the fact that teachers have 3 solid months off every summer? Again, usually the less-great teachers make more heavy use of subs, but that's not always the case. I would have expected that a school administrator would check in with me in the classroom to make sure there was a realistic lesson plan and to be a point of support to make sure the day went as smoothly as possible, but I can count on a single finger the number of times that took place. Again, I'm sure they just have an already full plate but it still feels a bit bizarre. As a scum class sub, I'm literally just a random off the street. I could be anyone, I could be high, drunk, insane, racist, asleep, anything.

That ties into my next thought that as a sub, it felt like I had nothing to gain and everything to lose. I have no ability to impact students long term, and as adolescents, they know this and take every advantage they possibly can (literally, what else would you expect). I would leave a detailed note for each period of every class letting them know what took place, who I had issues with, what we did, and any feedback I felt like would be helpful for the next time they needed a sub. But that's it. "Timmy Jones screamed the n word while I was trying to take roll so I sent him to the office." Are there consequences? Probably not, because it's really just my rando-scrub potentially insane word against a kid who the teacher knows and who genuinely is usually a great student. Again, there is a reason why children have a much different legal status than adults. They are _children_. They literally are not fully responsible for their own behavior! I learned pretty quickly that the best course of action is not to get all pressed and steamy but to simply, calmly walk up to a problem student after a few warnings and say "Stand up. Follow me." and open the class door, point to the ground outside where I could still see through the window but the student could not see in and say "Sit here. Don't move." The only issue is that only works with a single student. If there are multiple problem students, I'd either have to continue attempting to moderate absurd behavior in class, or simply send them to the office with a note. I learned quickly to _also_ call the office (the intercom system _usually_ worked) to let them know to expect the student, or else they'd just throw the note away and go throw wads of wet toilet paper in the bathroom. Again, there usually were no real consequences, but at least they could sit in the office where someone with actual authority could monitor them.

I feel like this is sounding pretty negative so far, and that's not reflective of my overall experience. It was positive, but I'm simply laying out the reality of ultimately working for a massive "staffing agency" and a last minute temporary day worker. I actually had pretty limited exposure to my _actual_ employer, which was by my own design.

The first thing they have you do when you sign up to be a substitute is a background check. This was done actually through the school district, I assume it was their requirement so they facilitated the process. Because substitutes do not make a livable wage, most in my district are senior citizens. I had a funny experience when I did my fingerprints for the background check. It was a digital fingerprinter machine and I went through the process just like you'd expect getting fingerprinted. When I was done, the guy running the machine was surprised, even a bit shocked. "That's the first time we've got it on the first try." I inquired, was the machine a bit problematic? "No. Most people who do this are pretty old and their fingerprints are worn out so it takes a few tries." I didn't realize that in addition to sanity and continence of bowels, you also lose the resolution of your fingerprints. I guess if you're going to do crimes wait 'til you're 65+.

The next step was a "group interview and orientation". This was held in one of those class C office spaces you can rent by the hour. They set up in one of the most dingy conference rooms I've ever seen and I was there with about 4 other would-be subs. It was pretty funny actually. For my district, there's basically a single main administrator for the unnamed staffing agency and their assistant. The training was run by who I'd later learn was the assistant. I later met the main admin, which made the first meeting at least slightly less bewildering but nonetheless bizarre. It was one of the worst PowerPoint slideshows I've ever seen. Each slide had it's information laid out like it was a puzzle on the back of a cereal box. My conclusion was that it was a slideshow that was made and passed through several revisions from different people over the course of at least a decade. There was some basic info like how we got paid, and some really really hilariously insane information. Look, the person running the meeting was an English (and American culture) as a second learner, so I chalk a lot of the strangeness up to that. But still, one thing I will never forget was the section about not handing out any candy or items to students during class. Seems like a relatively straightforward rule, considering subs are literally random people coming into a class usually for a second day, right? "It's not that we don't want your cookies, it's just that we don't want you to have to deal with kids with diabetes or food allergies or other disabilities that might just cause a major headache and could be a real medical issue if not handled properly." I mean, that's what I would say. Instead, and this is a quote, "Do not hand out items because you don't know if maybe you accidentally give out the wrong color that is not their favorite color so the student goes home and _kills themself_." Like, that's about a 9 on the tension scale there eh? As someone who's actually dealt with suicide in my family, I admit I was a bit offended by the casual and absurd reference to it to illustrate a point that was so obvious it needed no explanation at all.

The next step was a day of "training". This was a larger group, maybe 30 "trainees". You might wonder why I keep referring to subs as randoms off the street? That viewpoint is informed by this large group setting. I showed up, eager to make a good impression in a shirt and tie. This training was led actually by a current sub/employee of the staffing agency. I guess they were like the "elite" sub. However, both main admin and assistant admin were present. Assistant admin had no participation whatsoever. Main admin would interject, quite literally interrupt the training with what I can best describe as the semi-lucid ramblings of someone who has a fair amount of on-the-job PTSD and not enough coffee for that day. The actual training was less on how to be a teacher and more just going over the employee handbook for legal reasons. Just like the orientation for any job you've ever had that HR makes you go through and sign that they've told you you're not allowed to make sexual comments at work to protect the company from a lawsuit, that kind of training.

These experiences led me to the conclusion that the staffing company, nor the local admins, would or could help me in my goal to be a really good substitute teacher. It wasn't what they were there for. I came to the understanding that I shouldn't need to talk to them, ever. Only if I had an issue, like if I was in an assignment I needed to be released from like I mentioned before, or one time I was scheduled to work but ended up puking my guts out the night before. There should not be any regular contact with them, at least under ideal circumstance.

The real place to show up and excel was the school. Like I've laid out, this can be difficult because you're only really dealing with children, not any school employees. But the teachers and administration is what made my life as a sub good, or bad. They have the ability to request you. So I would leave my name and phone number with a note saying that I'd love to come back, and I actually had a few callbacks. That was the grind. Plus, it felt like the initial power struggle with the students decreased _significantly_ after the first day, so if I went back for another day, they knew what to expect and how I would run things, and it all went a lot smoother. It was quite satisfying for me to go back to one of my favorite schools and have the students say "Yes, we got the good sub!" It was a bit of a catch-22 though because, like I mentioned before, it often felt like I had everything to lose and nothing to gain. From a 6th grader's perspective, a "good sub" is one that let them do anything they wanted. From a teacher's perspective, it seemed like a "good sub" was a sub the kids hated, because the sub was strict with the kids, as the teacher would normally be. I was often conflicted on if I wanted to the kids to like me or hate me. But let's face it, I don't have The Courage to Be Disliked, or at least the gumption to be, I'd rather just be nice to everyone and get along. I'm not some insane sadist just looking to make a kid cry because they act like a kid.

I eventually settled on a very specific strategy: follow the lesson plan. This was repeatedly pounded into us at that second training. Just _follow the lesson plan_. They meant it more like don't show up and decide I'm going to give my personal opinion on the history of the United States civil rights movement, but because I'm (mostly) not insane, I never planned on doing that in the first place. Instead, for me, this came to mean _literally only do what is specifically asked of me in the lesson plan_ or any generic school rules such as cell phone policy. So if the lesson plan said "make sure the kids don't play games on the Chromebooks", then I made sure the kids didn't play games on the Chromebooks. But if it didn't bother? Then I didn't either. I have no idea what the teacher usually allows or how things usually run and there is a _wide_ spectrum for how individual teachers do things. I stopped making assumptions about what I _thought_ a teacher might allow or disallow and instead I simply _followed the lesson plan_.

For my final month substituting, I was able to return to a class I'd been in for a day at my favorite school, but for an entire month while the teacher recovered from surgery. To me, getting callbacks from teachers was a sign I was doing something right. Getting the callback to come back for a _month_ was huge for me. I was able to go and meet with the teacher before their absence to go over the plan. Honestly, it was a pretty minimal plan all things considered; the students simply had essentially two long-term projects to work on over the month. 
