About one year ago I wrote a review of the Gen 1 Moto 360, and kind of reviewed Android Wear at the same time.  Since then, not a ton has changed in the smartwatch/wearable market. Sure, new products have been introduced. New versions of smartwatch OS's have been released (including a new version of Android Wear that was announced at Google I/O last week). Even with all of that, the core smartwatch has not changed. Battery life gets better, screens get brighter, whatever. In spite of all that, after having essentially dismissed smartwatches in whole, I'm back with another review. So what's different?

The Pebble Time was announced as a Kickstarter in early 2015. I didn't pay much attention at the time.  It was officially released in May 2015, which is when my interest was piqued. All of my time spent with the Moto 360 had left me with one solid rule that any smartwatch would have to fulfill in order for me to use it: A smartwatch must first and foremost, be a really good watch. Just as a smartphone must primarily be a really good phone. The Pebble Time seemed to address that rule.

It features a color e-paper display. You know, like the one your Kindle has, but color. Now ask yourself this: when was the last time I charged my Kindle? Maybe a week ago? A month? It surely wasn't last night. Thanks to e-paper technology, the display only uses energy when it changes what it's displaying. What that means for me is the battery lasts a really, really long time. With normal use, my Pebble Time gets roughly 10 days on a single charge. Here's what that looks like in the real world. Going on a week long vacation? Leave the charger behind! But it gets even better! Unlike other smartwatches, the charger is just a simple little USB cable, one of those flat kind that are impossible to tangle. So if you're going on a 2 week vacation, it's no big deal to bring it along. It connects with magnets, like the charger on your macbook. Easy. Huge win for me already!

The other huge advantage of e-paper is that since normal display doesn't use any battery life, the display is always on. No funky shake wrist gestures that sometimes work. All I have to do is glance at it, and assuming there's some light in the room, I can read the time. Basically just like a regular watch. It does have a frontlight that can be activated by a button press or funky shake wrist gesture, in case you're in a dark room. So the end result is a really good digital watch.

What about using it though? What do I actually do with it?

Honestly, this sounds obvious, but I use it to tell the time a lot. You know, like a regular watch. There's plenty of watch faces available. I chose a nice digital face that looks like a casio watch. The watch face itself is infinitely customisable, but I chose a neutral black and white color scheme. It tells the time extremely well.
