Over the summer, I've been interning at Digi International doing python testing on their various radios such as the Xbee. It's been pretty cool I guess, other than the fact I am forced to use Windows, my keyboard's space bar emits a high pitched squeak whenever I hit it, and the git client they use is simply awful (it's Altassian's SourceTree, but at least they use git!) It's been really cool to work alongside some real-life bonafide engineers who know what the heck they're doing. Also my manager is so good at managing he could be admitted to the Justice League on those skills alone.

One of the things I was invited to do was participate in an "intern challenge". The idea is to do a fun project to show off what you've learned over the summer. I have more projects I'd like to do than I could ever possibly have time to actually try to finish, so I thought it would be great motivation to try and bang something out. Having a solid 4 months to work on it helped as well.

When I'm coming up with projects I've found that the best way to finish a project (and because I'm super lazy) is to get it to a bare minimum level of functionality and make that my goal. Not only does the addrenaline rush that comes from that first hint of success come sooner, but it's a great way to combat feature creep. Start with as little as possible, get it working, and if you have time add more.

Obviously I wanted something that could take advantage of the access I'd have to some xbees. At ~30 bucks a pop each, and a minimum of two needed for a project, they would be otherwise out of my hobbyist budget. Fortunatly Digi helped me out with some at a discount so I took full advantage of it!

So the real question was what should I build for my project? I knew I wanted my project to involve hardware, probably moreso than software. My wife and I would be having our first baby within a month, so baby stuff was fresh on my mind. One possibility was a car seat occupancy detector. I've wanted to build that for a while now, but a lot of that would be writing mobile apps, which I'm not very good and and don't enjoy that much. I'd still like to do it someday...

I'm not sure where or when it happened, but the thought crossed my mind to make a "smart diaper". A baby diaper that would alert you when it needed to be changed. In a day when we have smart fridges, ovens and door locks, and wearable tech is all the rage, it would be ther perfect fit! Then came the next question: surely someone has already done it, right?

A quick google search for "smart diapers" returns pretty much only some of [these](http://www.pixiescientific.com/), which are cool but overkill for my purposes. I don't need fecal matter tested, or urine tested, or anything like that. I just wanted to know when my baby's diaper was dirty! Keep it simple, stupid! You can imagine how thrilled I was that my idea didn't already exist!

As I started the initial planning stages, thinking about how I could actually build it and what hardware I could use, it became clear - it would be drop-dead simple!

All dirty diapers have one thing in common: moisture. Poop or pee has significantly more water in it than a  baby's butt. That would be really nice to work with thanks to soil moisture sensors. At the time of writing, they can be purchased as cheap as $1.15 with free shipping from China. They're nice because they work with 3.3v or 5v just fine, and that is important because the xbees operate at 3.3v and are not 5v tolerant on the I/O lines. They come stock with prong/fork kind of thing, but that really only serves as two strips of metal that could conduct electricity, so they could just as well be anything conductive. I used some regular old wire wrapping wire stripped of it's insulation and sewed it through the diaper. Just two strips did the job just fine. I attatched them where the metal fork would normally go, and as luck would have it, it worked just fine! I couldn't beleive it.

Once I had the detecting/sensing ironed out, the rest just sort of fell into place.
