Recently I've been exploring a bit with some of SEGA's 8 and 16 bit consoles. Namely the Mastery System, Game Gear, and Genesis. I haven't done anything that hasn't been done before, but it's been fun for me! I think I'll start off with a little history lesson of sorts:

The Master System was SEGA's first entry into the US home gaming market. Though it was released in the US in 1986, it had lived in Japan for several years previously in various forms. It was first released as the Sega SG-1000 on July 15, 1983 in Japan (the same day the Nintendo Famicom was released). One year later, the SG-1000 II was released which added the ability to play card based games and detatchable controllers. I'll touch more on card based games later. Then finally, the Master System was released in the US which had detachable controllers, could play both card and cartridge games, and featured a design completely different than the Japanese consoles.

You've probably never played (or even seen) a Master System. The system did not sell well in the US, primarily due to the NES being released a full year previously and Nintendo's absolutely killer marketing campaign. I, like you, had also never played a Master System. I had, however played (and owned) a Genesis.

The Sega Genesis (released as the Mega Drive outside of North America) was released in the US in 1989. Unlike the Master System, you probably have played a Genesis. If you didn't own one growing up, you probably knew someone who did. What is interesting is that the Genesis was actually backwards compatible with the Master System. It contained all the processors required to run Master System games, but the cartridge slot was different. A simple adapter called the Power Base Converter allowed you to play Master System games and cards on your Genesis. Kind of funny that they'd include backwards compatablility since nobody owned a Master System!

The third Sega console I'll talk about is the Game Gear. You probably also have played a Game Gear, or owned one, or knew someone who did. What you probably didn't know is that the Game Gear was really just a portabalized and slightly upgraded Master System! That's pretty dang cool! Think if the Game Boy had been a portable NES! So really, the Game Gear could blow the Game Boy out of the water performance wise. It also featured one killer feature over the Game Boy: a full color backlit display! Unfortunately this was a double edged sword. The screen was backlit by a tiny flourescent bulb, much like the lights you have in your office. You know, those long tubes. The thing is, those bulbs are not at all designed to be run off batteries so the battery life was abysmal. It took six AA batteries and could only last for 3 to 5 hours! That's a LOT of batteries! Compare that to the Game Boy's four AA batteries and battery life of ~20 hours, that's a deal breaker. It would have been nice if Sega used a front light and allowed you turn it off (like the GBA SP), but LED technology just wasn't there at the time.
